# predict_hybrids
S. Eryn McFarlane, Joshua P. Jahner, Dorothea Lindtke,  C. Alex Buerkle and Elizabeth G. Mandeville

Hybrid zones have been held up as an opportunity to see speciation in action, as windows into the evolutionary process. Within this context, contemporary research commonly assumes that selection against genetic incompatibilities should lead to consistent outcomes in replicate hybrid zones. To test this assumption, we simulated 20 replicates of each of 24 hybrid zone scenarios with varied genetic incompatibilities,  rates of migration, and selection. We found remarkable variability in the outcomes of hybridization in replicated hybrid zones, particularly with Dobzhansky-Muller incompatibilities and strong selection. Specifically, we found substantial differences among replicates in the overall composition of individuals, including admixture proportions, inter-specific ancestry, and number of ancestry junctions. Additionally, we found substantial variation among replicates at focal loci, including a locus that contributed to incompatibility, a locus linked to a locus under selection, and a locus not under selection. From this, we conclude that processes other than selection are responsible for some consistent outcomes of hybridization, whereas selection on incompatibilities leads to genomically widespread consequences, and highly variable outcomes among replicates. We use these results to highlight the challenge of mapping between pattern and process in hybrid zones and call attention to how selection against incompatibilities will commonly lead to unpredictable, variable outcomes. Our hope is that this study informs future replicate hybrid zones and encourages research into the statistical techniques, theoretical models and exploration of additional axis of variation to understand the maintenance of reproductive isolation, while recognizing the difficulties of confidently mapping process to pattern. 

Simulations were done in dfuse (doi: 10.5061/dryad.0506g), all analyses and plots in R.
